Hi and welcome back in this video we're talking about other data types that are available for you in
Pasqua sequel.
There's plenty of other data types aside from numbers and strings and dates.
Although these are the most commonly used for example that you know you can store images in Pasqua sequel
.
There is a special type of data that you can use in Pasqua sequel that allows you to store images up
to 1 gigabyte in size.
Naturally this is also limited by the computer which is hosting the database the field or the data type
that is used for storing images can also be used to store other binary files such as anything you can
think of really the the data type is called byte A and is and is used in Patras sequel to store bytes
which can be anything you want in order to store images.
Remember how images are made when an image is not just or magical entity as you know but rather it is
composed of pixels and each of the pixels each with the small dots that make up the image has a color
and some more information associated with it.
If we get that information for each of the pixels we get the color and the transparency and other things
then we can just get them all.
Each of the individual pixels and we can put all that information into a byte a field and that's quite
a long field.
But all the characters that compose an image say of a couple of megapixels are actually only a few kilobytes
or depending on how large your image is it can be up to a few megabytes.
But as I said they feel supported up to one gigabyte in size them.
So that's something you can do.
Usually people recommend that you store images in the file system outside of the database and then your
database can contain a path of where the image is stored.
For example you could have your images in see images my image don't jpeg and your sequel database could
contain this and then your python program could go into that path and read the image and show it to
the user.
That's also another option.
So those are just two ways that you might go about storing images.
And we're going to get into that in the next few sections.
So that's why I'm not going into too much detail.
I just wanted you to know that this is possible using sequel.
Another type of data that is quite useful is the you know the enumeration type of data and enim is just
a string but it is more than that.
It is a set of strings that can limit what type of diet type type of data you can put in to a row.
For example they can be used to limit and the gender of customers or the possible color of items and
so on.
Let's quickly show you a sample ENM and how you might go about using it in your table.
I'm going to create a type called mood and that is going to be as ENM.
So what I'm doing here is I'm creating a new data type called Mood.
But I can use it in my tables column definitions and inside brackets after them we can put in the options
that are going to limit the values.
So here we can put for example extremely unhappy
unhappy.
OK happy and extremely happy.
What this is doing once again is creating a new data type that you can use in your and create table
.
And the only values of that that role will be able to contain is one of these five values.
So that's quite useful when you want to limit the sort of input that can go in.
So I'm going to create that type and then we can create a table called students because we know the
moods vary and there's going to have a name which is going to be character varying to 5:5 and he's going
to have a current mood which is going to be of type mood which is the type that we just created that
in him.
OK.
And as you can see that works.
It says ok mood is a valid data type I can accept that because we've just created it.
So now our table exists and if we select start from students we can see that the name is a character
varing.
And the current mood is of type mood which is what we've just created.
And then we can insert values insert into students values and I'm going to put in a name just moey and
then I'm going to on purpose make a mistake there.
What do you think is going to happen.
And you probably guessed that an arrow should pop up and it does invalid input value for in a mood happy
.
It just tells you that that's not something that that you can accept.
So if we put another P then that is fine.
OK let's put in a couple more years so I can show you a couple of things about them that are quite interesting
especially when you do comparisons and stuff like that
sort
of this and just typing quickly.
OK.
We've put in some data and I'm going to select staff from students now.
And as you can see we've got a bit of a variety there in terms of the happiness of our students.
We've got three that are happy.
One that I was extremely happy when they're extremely unhappy and when they're just unhappy if you remember
from when we created our ENM we put extremely unhappy first then unhappy then OK then happy and then
extremely happy.
And that's important because Ephraim's are ordered to be extremely unhappy.
Is volume number zero and the extremely happy is a value number four which means that we can filter
by these in them so we can see where the current mood is greater than OK and that is going to or should
give us happy and extremely happy and it does because OK A's value number two and happies three and
actually Happy's for three and four are greater than two.
And that's it.
OK.
And this is something that you can do with names and they are sometimes useful maybe not useful in terms
of comparison like this for genders but in terms of happiness or scores and things like that that you
may want to limit the inputs and then still be able to perform filters like this one.
Then the names are quite useful and also because they limit the input.
It means that you can then share and responsibility with other people entering data into a database
and still make sure that no incorrect data is input because the ynot is going to limit that.
So enim is a very useful thing.
And now let's move on to a bit of talking which I apologize for because I know that hearing me blab
on about things is maybe not the most fun thing but nevertheless I want to tell you about something
that's new in Pasqua sequel.
And it has been for the last couple of versions which is the ability to store Jason javascript object
notation formatted strings in Pasqua sequel.
Now if you think this is not interesting at all if you if you're thinking well why do I care if I can
store Jason or not.
Then you're probably right.
You know relational databases have always just worked with tables and each table has a bunch of columns
and an image of rows and then you can do your filtering and your sorting and things like that as normal
.
Jason is less structured which means you can have a column that has a string of Jason and then I call
them the has a completely differently formatted Jason string whereas now we've got this table here it
has a name and a mood and we cannot have an extra column just for one user.
If we add an extra column all our users have that extra call in Jason if we store Jason it means that
some users can have more columns than others and things like that.
And why is that interesting it just gives you a bit more flexibility.
However it comes at a price because it is more flexible it means that searching and filtering is slower
.
And normally you would use a new sequel's database which specializes in storing Jason formatted strings
versus a relational database which which specializes in storing tables and with related data.
But now that Pasqua sequel come support Jason then this is something that you may in the future consider
storing depending on your applications.
And I am just telling you this because it's important remember that postscripts can store Jason and
if at some point in the future you find they that would be an interesting thing to do then you know
that it can be done and throughout the course we might find scenarios where using Jason's door injection
might be a good idea and if we do then we will get into that there but for now.
And that's everything that I wanted to tell you about in this video.
We've learned about a couple of apps and Jason Ephraim's and bite a for images.
And now in the next video we're going to be looking at the nested select which is also very interesting
.
See you in the next video